==========================================================================

= = = = = = = = = = = = =  SeaMonkey Read Me   = = = = = = = = = = = = = =

==========================================================================

SeaMonkey is subject to the terms detailed in the license agreement
accompanying it.

This Read Me file contains information about system requirements and
installation instructions for the Windows builds of SeaMonkey.

For more info on SeaMonkey, see http://www.mozilla.org/projects/seamonkey/
To submit bugs or other feedback, see the Navigator QA menu and check out
Bugzilla at https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/ for links to known bugs,
bug-writing guidelines, and more. You can also get help with Bugzilla by
pointing your IRC client to #mozillazine at irc.mozilla.org.


==========================================================================

                          Getting SeaMonkey

==========================================================================

You can download nightly builds of SeaMonkey from the mozilla.org FTP site
at

  http://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/seamonkey/nightly/

For the very latest builds, see

  http://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/seamonkey/nightly/latest-trunk/

Keep in mind that nightly builds, which are used by mozilla.org developers
for testing, may be buggy. If you are looking for a more polished version
of SeaMonkey, the SeaMonkey project releases builds of SeaMonkey regularly
that you can download from

  http://www.mozilla.org/projects/seamonkey/
 
Be sure to read the SeaMonkey release notes for information on known
problems and installation issues with SeaMonkey.  The release notes can be
found at the preceding URL along with the releases themselves.

Note: Please use Talkback builds whenever possible. These builds allow
transmission of crash data back to SeaMonkey and Mozilla developers,
improved crash analysis, and posting of crash information to our
crash-data newsgroup.


==========================================================================

                         System Requirements

==========================================================================

* General

   If you want to view and use the "Modern" theme, your display monitor
   should be set to display thousands of colors. For users who cannot set
   their displays to use more than 256 colors, the SeaMonkey project
   recommends using the "Classic" theme for SeaMonkey.

   To select the Modern theme after you have installed SeaMonkey, from the
   browser, open the View menu, then open the Apply Theme submenu and
   choose Modern.

*Windows

   - Windows 95, 98, Me, NT4, 2000 or XP
   - Intel Pentium class processor (233 MHz or faster recommended)
   - 64 MB RAM
   - 26 MB free hard disk space


==========================================================================

                      Installation Instructions

==========================================================================

It is strongly recommended that you exit all programs before running the
setup program. Also, you should temporarily disable virus-detection
software.

Install into a clean (new) directory. Installing on top of previously
released builds may cause problems.

Note: These instructions do not tell you how to build SeaMonkey.
For info on building SeaMonkey from the mozilla.org source code, see

  http://www.mozilla.org/build/


Windows Installation Instructions
---------------------------------

Note: For Windows NT/2000/XP systems, you need Administrator privileges to
install SeaMonkey. If you see an "Error 5" message during installation,
make sure you're running the installation with Administrator privileges.


   To install SeaMonkey by downloading the SeaMonkey installer,
   follow these steps:

   1. Click the link to seamonkey-x.xx.en-US.win32.installer.exe (or
      similar file name) on the site you're downloading SeaMonkey from to
      download the installer file to your machine.

   2. Navigate to where you downloaded the file and double-click the
      installer file icon on your machine to begin the Setup program.

   3. Follow the on-screen instructions in the setup program. The program
      starts automatically the first time.


   To install SeaMonkey by downloading the .zip file and installing
   manually, follow these steps:

   1. Click the link to seamonkey-x.xx.en-US.win32.zip (or similar file
      name) on the site you're downloading SeaMonkey from to download the
      .zip file to your machine.

   2. Navigate to where you downloaded the file and double-click the
      compressed file.

      Note: This step assumes you already have a recent version of WinZip
      (or a similar zip tool) installed, and that you know how to use it.
      If not, you can get WinZip and information about the program at
      www.winzip.com.

   3. Extract the .zip file to a directory such as
        C:\Program Files\mozilla.org\SeaMonkey.

   4. To start SeaMonkey, navigate to the directory you extracted
      SeaMonkey to and double-click the seamonkey.exe icon.
