==========================================================================

= = = = = = = = = = = = =  SeaMonkey Read Me   = = = = = = = = = = = = = =

==========================================================================

SeaMonkey is subject to the terms detailed in the license agreement
accompanying it.

This Read Me file contains information about system requirements and
installation instructions for the Mac OS builds of SeaMonkey. 

For more info on SeaMonkey, see http://www.mozilla.org/projects/seamonkey/
To submit bugs or other feedback, see the Navigator QA menu and check out
Bugzilla at https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/ for links to known bugs,
bug-writing guidelines, and more. You can also get help with Bugzilla by
pointing your IRC client to #mozillazine at irc.mozilla.org.


==========================================================================

                          Getting SeaMonkey

==========================================================================

You can download nightly builds of SeaMonkey from the mozilla.org FTP site
at

  http://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/seamonkey/nightly/

For the very latest builds, see

  http://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/seamonkey/nightly/latest-trunk/

Keep in mind that nightly builds, which are used by mozilla.org developers
for testing, may be buggy. If you are looking for a more polished version
of SeaMonkey, the SeaMonkey project releases builds of SeaMonkey regularly
that you can download from

  http://www.mozilla.org/projects/seamonkey/
 
Be sure to read the SeaMonkey release notes for information on known
problems and installation issues with SeaMonkey.  The release notes can be
found at the preceding URL along with the releases themselves.

Note: Please use Talkback builds whenever possible. These builds allow
transmission of crash data back to SeaMonkey and Mozilla developers,
improved crash analysis, and posting of crash information to our
crash-data newsgroup.


==========================================================================

                         System Requirements

==========================================================================

* General

   If you want to view and use the "Modern" theme, your display monitor
   should be set to display thousands of colors. For users who cannot set
   their displays to use more than 256 colors, the SeaMonkey project
   recommends using the "Classic" theme for SeaMonkey.

   To select the Modern theme after you have installed SeaMonkey, from the
   browser, open the View menu, then open the Apply Theme submenu and
   choose Modern.

* Mac OS

   - Mac OS X 10.2 or later
   - PowerPC processor (266 MHz or faster recommended)
   - 64 MB RAM
   - 36 MB of free hard disk space


==========================================================================

                      Installation Instructions

==========================================================================

It is strongly recommended that you exit all programs before running the
setup program. Also, you should temporarily disable virus-detection
software.

Install into a clean (new) directory. Installing on top of previously
released builds may cause problems.

Note: These instructions do not tell you how to build SeaMonkey.
For info on building SeaMonkey from the mozilla.org source code, see

  http://www.mozilla.org/build/

Mac OS X Installation Instructions
----------------------------------

   To install SeaMonkey by downloading the SeaMonkey disk image,
   follow these steps:

   1. Click the link to seamonkey-x.xx.en-US.mac.dmg (or similar file
      name) to download it to your machine. By default, the file
      is downloaded to your desktop.

   2. Once you have downloaded the .dmg file, if the disk image doesn't
      mount automatically, double-click on the .dmg file to mount it. If
      that fails, and the file does not look like a disk image file, do a
      "Show Info" on the file, and, in the "Open with application"
      category, choose Disk Copy. You can also use "Open with" from the
      context menu.

   3. Once the disk image mounts, open it, and drag the SeaMonkey icon
      onto your hard disk.

   4. We recommend that you copy it to the Applications folder.

   5. Now Eject the disk image.

   6. If you like, you can drag SeaMonkey to your dock to have it easily
      accessible at all times. You might also wish to select SeaMonkey as
      your default browser in the Internet system preferences pane (under
      the Web tab).
