<?xml-stylesheet href='css/help.css'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:sw="http://www.sciword.com/namespaces/sciword">
<head>

<preamble> 
<documentclass class="book"/>  

<docformat> <colist sides="twoside"/> 
</docformat>  <preambleTeX><![CDATA[
\usepackage {bm}
\usepackage {tabulary}
\input {tcilatex}]]></preambleTeX> </preamble>
</head> 
<body msiSelectionManagerID="8">
<chapter xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="tsid_3141592" msiSelectionManagerID="7">
<sectiontitle>Welcome to Version 6!</sectiontitle>
<section><sectiontitle msiSelectionManagerID="2">
This Software Thinks Like You Do!</sectiontitle>
<bodyText>
Scientific WorkPlace (SWP), Scientific Word (SW), and Scientific Notebook (SNB) 
makes writing, sharing, and doing mathematics easier than you ever imagined. 
You can create attractive documents which combine text, graphics, and mathematics 
in natural notation.Version 6 capabilities include unlimited Undo and an updated program window.
</bodyText>
</section>
<section>
<sectiontitle>Computer Algebra Engine</sectiontitle>
<bodyText>
Version 6 of SWP and SNB embed the MuPAD 5 computer algebra engine to provide 
an integrated working environment. You can compose and edit complex documents, 
compute and solve equations symbolically and numerically, and plot directly on 
the screen without being forced to think in a programming language. 
</bodyText>
</section>
<section>
<sectiontitle>Multiple Platforms</sectiontitle>
<bodyText>
Version 6 runs natively on Windows, Linux, and Mac OS X. You can share documents 
with colleagues regardless of operating systems. With SWP and SW you can typeset 
LaTeX files to PDF creating fully hyperlinked documents with embedded graphics. 
Using SWP, SW, or SNB you can also export web pages.</bodyText><bodyText> You 
can easily build an entire website with mathematical content which can be read 
with any web browser, such as Firefox, that displays MathML.
</bodyText>
</section>
</chapter>
</body> 
</html>