<?xml-stylesheet href='css/help.css'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
<head>

<preamble> 
<documentclass class="book"/>  

<docformat> <colist sides="twoside"/> 
</docformat>  <preambleTeX><![CDATA[
\usepackage {bm}
\usepackage {tabulary}
\input {tcilatex}]]></preambleTeX> </preamble>
</head> 
<body msiSelectionManagerID="8">
<chapter xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="tsid_3141592" msiSelectionManagerID="7">
<sectiontitle>Welcome to Version 6!</sectiontitle>
<section><sectiontitle msiSelectionManagerID="2">
This Software Thinks Like You Do!</sectiontitle>
<bodyText>
Scientific WorkPlace (SWP), Scientific Word (SW), and Scientific Notebook (SNB) 
makes writing, sharing, and doing mathematics easier than you ever imagined. 
You can create attractive documents which combine text, graphics, and mathematics 
in natural notation.Version 6 capabilities include unlimited Undo and an updated program window.
</bodyText>
</section>
<section>
<sectiontitle><texlogo xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" name="latex">L<sup>A</sup>T<sub>E</sub>X</texlogo> Typesetting</sectiontitle>
<bodyText>
Version 6 of SWP and SW enables both professionals and support staff to produce 
beautifully typeset text and mathematics, adhering to internationally accepted 
standards. Stunning books and articles can be produced without the author having 
to know <texlogo xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" name="latex">T<sub>E</sub>X</texlogo> or <texlogo xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" name="latex">L<sup>A</sup>T<sub>E</sub>X</texlogo>, the industry standard for mathematics typesetting. The 
resulting <texlogo xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" name="latex">L<sup>A</sup>T<sub>E</sub>X</texlogo> files can be submitted electronically to many journals. The 
program includes many document shells that have been designed to meet the 
typesetting requirements of specific journals and institutions. Recent advances 
in <texlogo xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" name="latex">T<sub>E</sub>X</texlogo> and <texlogo xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" name="latex">L<sup>A</sup>T<sub>E</sub>X</texlogo>, including 
<texlogo xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" name="latex">X&#8201;<sup>E</sup>T<sub>E</sub>X</texlogo>, are included in Version 6. SNB does not 
produce typeset output.
</bodyText>
</section>
<section>
<sectiontitle>Multiple Platforms</sectiontitle>
<bodyText>
Version 6 runs natively on Windows<!--, Linux,--> and macOS. You can share documents 
with colleagues regardless of operating systems. With SWP and SW you can typeset 
<texlogo xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" name="latex">L<sup>A</sup>T<sub>E</sub>X</texlogo> files to PDF creating fully hyperlinked documents with embedded graphics. 
Using SWP, SW, or SNB you can also export web pages.</bodyText><bodyText> You 
can easily build an entire website with mathematical content which can be read 
with any web browser, such as Firefox, that displays MathML.
</bodyText>
</section>
</chapter>
</body> 
</html>