<?xml-stylesheet href='css/help.css'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:sw="http://www.sciword.com/namespaces/sciword">
<head>

<preamble> 
<documentclass class="book"/>  
<usepackage req="amssymb,amsmath"/>
<usepackage req="xspace"/>

<usepackage req="graphicx"/> 
<usepackage req="ragged2e"/> 
<usepackage req="xcolor"/>
<texb enc="1" name="graphicspath"><![CDATA[\graphicspath {{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_tcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_gcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_graphics/}}]]></texb>
            

<docformat> <colist sides="twoside"/> 
</docformat>  <preambleTeX><![CDATA[
\usepackage {bm}
\usepackage {tabulary}
\input {tcilatex}]]></preambleTeX> </preamble>
</head> 
<body msiSelectionManagerID="8"><chapter xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="tsid_3141592">
<sectiontitle>Getting Started</sectiontitle> 
<bodyText>Welcome<notewrapper xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><note type="marginpar" id="tsid_3141639"><bodyText>
<texb enc="1" name="raggedright"><![CDATA[\raggedright]]></texb><texb enc="1" name="set spacing"><![CDATA[\setlength {\parskip }{14pt}]]></texb>
<QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">For Existing Users</QTR></bodyText>
<bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">For
New Users</QTR></bodyText>
<bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">Before
You Begin</QTR></bodyText>
<bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">Conventions</QTR></bodyText></note></notewrapper>
to Version 6!
 Scientific WorkPlace
 (SWP), 
Scientific Word
 (SW), and 
Scientific Notebook
 (SNB) have always provided easy text-entry, natural-notation mathematics,
powerful symbolic and numeric computation, and flexible output of online,
printed, and typeset documents in a Windows environment. With Version 6,
these features are available for Linux and Macintosh OS X users as well.
</bodyText>
<bodyText>Because of the substantial changes to the program
for this version, existing users should take time to familiarize themselves
with SWP's new features every bit as much as new users should, although
the exact topics of interest to each group will be different. Recognizing
this, we have divided this introductory chapter into a section for existing
users and one for new users. Existing users will find information about
important changes to the functionality of SWP in Version 6. New users will
get an introduction to the product with suggestions on how best to learn
it. </bodyText>
<bodyText>From there, this book takes an incremental approach
to using SWP. Early chapters outline basic document-creation tasks. Later
chapters discuss different methods of document production, structuring documents
for typesetting, and other more advanced tasks. The appendices summarize
the command menus, toolbars, and keyboard shortcuts. </bodyText>
<bodyText>The
book itself was produced using SWP Version 6, and serves as an example of
the kinds of things you can do: Dropped capitals, margin notes, references, inline
graphics with text that runs around them, and of course attractive and accurately
formatted mathematics.</bodyText></chapter></body> 
</html>