<?xml-stylesheet href='css/my.css'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:sw="http://www.sciword.com/namespaces/sciword">
<head>

<preamble> 
<documentclass class="book"/>  
<usepackage req="amssymb,amsmath"/>
<usepackage req="xspace"/>

<usepackage req="graphicx"/> 
<usepackage req="ragged2e"/> 
<usepackage req="xcolor"/>
<texb enc="1" name="graphicspath"><![CDATA[\graphicspath {{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_tcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_gcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_graphics/}}]]></texb>
            

<docformat> <colist sides="twoside"/> 
</docformat>  <preambleTeX><![CDATA[
\usepackage {bm}
\usepackage {tabulary}
\input {tcilatex}]]></preambleTeX> </preamble>
</head> 
<body msiSelectionManagerID="16"><section xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="tsid_3141596">
<sectiontitle>Conventions</sectiontitle> 
<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>conventions</prisec></indexitem>Understanding
the notation and the terms used in our documentation will help you understand
the instructions. We assume you're familiar with the basic procedures and
terminology for your operating system. In our manuals, we use the notation
and terms listed below. </bodyText>
<subsection id="tsid_3141628">
<sectiontitle><shortTitle>General</shortTitle>General Notations</sectiontitle>

<bodyText>Text like <typewriter>this </typewriter>indicates information
you should type exactly as it is shown. </bodyText>
<bodyText>Text like
this 
indicates information that you must supply, such as a filename. </bodyText>
<bodyText>Typeset
your file means to process your document with <texlogo xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" name="latex">L<sup>A</sup>T<sub>E</sub>X</texlogo>
or <texb enc="1" name="pdfLaTeX"><![CDATA[\pdfLaTeX{}]]></texb>. </bodyText>
<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>menus!conventions</prisec></indexitem>Commands
on menus and submenus are shown as 
Menu,
 [
Submenu,
] 
Command,
 with arrows separating each part. For instance, the Save As... command
on the File menu is shown as File <texb enc="1" name="textrightarrow"><![CDATA[\textrightarrow]]></texb>Save
As... The Direct Print Preview command on the Print Preview submenu of the
File menu is given by File <texb enc="1" name="textrightarrow"><![CDATA[\textrightarrow]]></texb>Print
Preview <texb enc="1" name="textrightarrow"><![CDATA[\textrightarrow]]></texb>Direct
Print Preview. </bodyText></subsection>
<subsection id="tsid_3141629">
<sectiontitle><shortTitle>Keyboard</shortTitle>Keyboard Conventions</sectiontitle>

<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>commands!with keyboard</prisec></indexitem>We
use standard computer conventions to give <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>keyboard conventions</prisec></indexitem>keyboard
instructions </bodyText>
<bodyText>The <notewrapper xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><note type="marginpar" id="tsid_3141643"><bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginheading">Macintosh
Users Note</QTR></bodyText></note></notewrapper> names of keys in the instructions
match the names shown on most keyboards. Ctrl (Windows) and Cmd (Mac) are
synonymous, as are Enter (Windows) and Return (Mac). 
Names of keys are always shown in Windows format.
 Macintosh users should substitute Mac keys (e.g. Cmd and Return) as appropriate.
For right-clicking, Macintosh users with a single-button mouse should substitute
Ctrl+click. </bodyText>
<bodyText>A plus sign (+) between the names of two
keys indicates that you must press the first key and hold it down while
you press the second key. For example, Ctrl+g means that you press and hold
down the Ctrl key, press g, and then release both keys. </bodyText>
<bodyText>Press
the Alt key followed by the indicated letter(s) (F for File, S for Save,
e.g.) to quickly access menus and commands. Press Esc to cancel. </bodyText>
<bodyText>Press
<notewrapper xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><note type="marginpar" id="tsid_3141644"><bodyText>
<texb enc="1" name="raggedright"><![CDATA[\raggedright]]></texb><QTR type="QQQMarginheading">Important:</QTR></bodyText>
<bodyText><sansSerif>Terminating
Lists, Subsections, etc.</sansSerif></bodyText></note></notewrapper> Enter
in an empty paragraph to terminate any structure (subsection, list, etc.)
and return to the next level up. (Pressing Enter twice is the same.) 
This does mean that you can't ordinarily press Enter multiple times to create
white space
. <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>adding white space</prisec></indexitem>To
create vertical space, either use Insert <texb enc="1" name="textrightarrow"><![CDATA[\textrightarrow]]></texb>Spacing
Objects... <texb enc="1" name="textrightarrow"><![CDATA[\textrightarrow]]></texb>Vertical
Space... OR use Configuration to change how pressing Enter in an empty paragraph
works. </bodyText></subsection>
<subsection id="tsid_3141630">
<sectiontitle><shortTitle>Mouse</shortTitle>Mouse Conventions</sectiontitle>

<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>mouse conventions</prisec></indexitem><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>conventions!mouse</prisec></indexitem><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>commands!with mouse</prisec></indexitem>The
instructions in this manual assume you have not changed any mouse button
defaults. You can use the right mouse button to display a Context menu for
the current selection or the item under the mouse pointer. (Mac Users: Ctrl+click.)
Pressing the Application key or Command key also displays the menu. </bodyText>
<bodyText>In
any <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>dialog boxes</prisec></indexitem>dialog
box, click the OK button to put changes into effect and dismiss the dialog
box. Click the Cancel button to dismiss the dialog box without taking any
other action. <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>Close!in dialog boxes</prisec></indexitem>You
may also click the Close button in the upper right corner of the dialog
box. </bodyText>
</subsection>

</section></body> 
</html>