<?xml-stylesheet href='css/help.css'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:sw="http://www.sciword.com/namespaces/sciword">
<head>

<preamble> 
<documentclass class="book"/>  
<usepackage req="amssymb,amsmath"/>
<usepackage req="xspace"/>

<usepackage req="graphicx"/> 
<usepackage req="ragged2e"/> 
<usepackage req="xcolor"/>
<texb enc="1" name="graphicspath"><![CDATA[\graphicspath {{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_tcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_gcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_graphics/}}]]></texb>
            

<docformat> <colist sides="twoside"/> 
</docformat>  <preambleTeX><![CDATA[
\usepackage {bm}
\usepackage {tabulary}
\input {tcilatex}]]></preambleTeX> </preamble>
</head> 
<body msiSelectionManagerID="12"><chapter xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="tsid_3141592">
<sectiontitle>Basics</sectiontitle> 
<bodyText>The <notewrapper xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><note type="marginpar" id="tsid_3141739"><bodyText>
<texb enc="1" name="raggedright"><![CDATA[\raggedright]]></texb><texb enc="1" name="set spacing"><![CDATA[\setlength {\parskip }{14pt}]]></texb>
<QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">Menus</QTR></bodyText>
<bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">Toolbars</QTR></bodyText>
<bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">Sidebars</QTR></bodyText>
<bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">Display
Modes</QTR></bodyText>
<bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">Status
Bar</QTR></bodyText>
<bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">Additional
Information</QTR></bodyText></note></notewrapper> 
Scientific WorkPlace 
(SWP), 
Scientific Word
 (SW), and 
Scientific Notebook
 (SNB) Version 6 <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>program!window</prisec></indexitem>program
window has been completely redesigned to provide easy access to the tools
you need to create and navigate documents. In addition to the standard menu
bar at the top, there is a status bar at the bottom and several other customizable
toolbars just above the text entry area. Optional sidebars display a navigable
outline of your document, symbol panels, a link to a web page on our web
site that gives current information about updates, new shells, extensions,
etc., and/or a list of available fragments. Tabs at the bottom of the screen
change the display mode of your document: normal text entry, a view with
the <texb enc="1" name="XML"><![CDATA[\XML{}]]></texb> tags shown, a view
of the source code, or a <smallCaps>pdf</smallCaps> preview. </bodyText>
<bodyText>Program
tools are available from the menus, toolbar buttons, tabs, and via keyboard
shortcuts. Many tools may be invoked in multiple ways to suit your style
of work: via menu, button, or keyboard. In this manual, we generally indicate
only one of the possible ways of accessing a tool, generally via the menus.
A table of alternative methods is given at the end of each subsequent chapter
of this manual. Appendix A lists all command shortcuts. </bodyText><vspace dim="\fill " type="customSpace"/></chapter><chapter xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="tsid_3141592" msiSelectionManagerID="2"><br/></chapter></body> 
</html>