<?xml-stylesheet href='css/help.css'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
<head>

</head> 

<body msiSelectionManagerID="100">
  <section xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="tsid_3141600">
    <sectiontitle>Information for Power Users</sectiontitle>

      <subsection id="tsid_3141635">
      <sectiontitle><shortTitle>Hints and tips</shortTitle>Hints and Tips</sectiontitle>

        <bodyText>
          Use the arrow keys for quick navigation and editing. 
        </bodyText>

        <bulletlist>  
          <bulletListItem>
            <bodyText>To search forward for a specific character, hold down 
              the right arrow key and type the character.
            </bodyText>
          </bulletListItem>
          <bulletListItem>
            <bodyText>To search backward for a specific character, hold down
              the left arrow key and type the character.
            </bodyText>
          </bulletListItem>
          <bulletListItem>
            <bodyText>To search forward for a group of characters, hold down 
              the down arrow key and type the characters.
            </bodyText>
          </bulletListItem>
          <bulletListItem>
            <bodyText>To search backward for a group of characters, hold down
              the up arrow key and type the characters. 
            </bodyText>
          </bulletListItem>
        </bulletlist>
 
        <bodyText>
          Because of this functionality, holding down any of the arrow
          keys will not repeatedly move the insertion point. To do so, press the arrow
          key <emphasized>twice</emphasized>, holding it down the second time. 
        </bodyText>

        <bodyText>
          Edit items with the context menu. For instance, to change
          a table, right-click the table. The context menu that appears has
          commands for adding and deleting rows and columns, among other things. 
        </bodyText>

        <bodyText>
          Only images and tables that are using floating placement can be cross-referenced.
        </bodyText>

        <bodyText>
          On the Macintosh
          <notewrapper xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
            <note type="marginpar" id="tsid_3141748">
              <bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginheading">Macintosh Users Note</QTR>
              </bodyText>
            </note>
          </notewrapper>
          using the function keys shortcuts typically defaults to requiring pressing the key
          combination fn and the desired function key.  This can be changed to use the function
          keys as standard function keys by opening System Preferences and using the Keyboard
          shortcut and then turning on the appropriate check box.
        </bodyText>

      </subsection>

    <bodyText>[ <a href="cd04-00-editingdocs.xhtml">Return to prior section</a> ]</bodyText>

  </section>
</body>
</html>
