<?xml-stylesheet href='css/help.css'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:sw="http://www.sciword.com/namespaces/sciword">
<head>

<preamble> 
<documentclass class="book"/>  
<usepackage req="amssymb,amsmath"/>
<usepackage req="xspace"/>

<usepackage req="graphicx"/> 
<usepackage req="ragged2e"/> 
<usepackage req="xcolor"/>
<texb enc="1" name="graphicspath"><![CDATA[\graphicspath {{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_tcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_gcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_graphics/}}]]></texb>
            

<docformat> <colist sides="twoside"/> 
</docformat>  <preambleTeX><![CDATA[
\usepackage {bm}
\usepackage {tabulary}
\input {tcilatex}]]></preambleTeX> </preamble>
</head> 
<body msiSelectionManagerID="72"><section xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="tsid_3141593">
<sectiontitle>Before You Begin</sectiontitle> 
<bodyText>Just as grasping
the concept of a document shell was important to the process of creating
a new document, understanding how MacKichan software treats different kinds
of information is important before you enter and edit text. The next sections
of this chapter note the differences between entering text and entering
mathematics, and talk about the importance of tagging. </bodyText><vspace dim="\fill " type="customSpace"/><msibreak type="newPage"><newPageRule/></msibreak>
<subsection id="tsid_3141623">
<sectiontitle>Text <italics>vs.</italics> Mathematics</sectiontitle> 
<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>Text vs. Math</prisec></indexitem>At
all times during information entry you are either entering <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>Math/Text!default</prisec></indexitem>text
or mathematics, and the results obtained from keystrokes and other user
interface actions will differ depending on whether you are entering text
or math. Thus we refer to being in either text mode or math mode. The <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>program!defaults!Math/Text</prisec></indexitem>default
state is text mode; it is easy to toggle between the two modes and it is
also easy to determine what mode you are in. Unless you actively change
to mathematics, the program displays a ``T``
on the Standard toolbar and </bodyText>

<bulletlist>  
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Interprets anything you type as
text, displaying it in black in the program window. </bodyText></bulletListItem>
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Displays
alphabetic characters as upright, not italicized. </bodyText></bulletListItem>
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Inserts
a space when you press the spacebar. 

</bodyText>

</bulletListItem>
</bulletlist>
 
<bodyText>When you start the program, the <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>insertion point!and Math/Text toggle</prisec></indexitem>insertion
point is in text mode. </bodyText>
<subparagraph id="tsid_3141602">
<sectiontitle>To toggle between text and mathematics</sectiontitle> 
<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>Math/Text!toggle</prisec></indexitem><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>modes!toggling between text and math</prisec></indexitem>Click
the ``T'' on the standard
toolbar. The ``T'' changes
to ``M,'' the insertion point
changes to red and appears between brackets. </bodyText>
<bodyText>You may
also choose the Math command from the Insert menu. </bodyText>
<bodyText>When
you toggle to mathematics, the Math/Text button changes to an ``M''
and the program </bodyText>

<bulletlist>  
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Displays the insertion point between
brackets for mathematics. </bodyText></bulletListItem>
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Interprets
anything you type as mathematics, displaying it in red in the program window.
</bodyText></bulletListItem>
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Italicizes alphabetic
characters and displays numbers upright. </bodyText></bulletListItem>
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Automatically
formats mathematical expressions, inserting correct spacing around operators
such as + and relations such as =. </bodyText></bulletListItem>
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Advances
the insertion point to the next mathematical object when you press the spacebar.


</bodyText>

</bulletListItem>
</bulletlist>
 
<bodyText>The remainder of this chapter focuses on entering and editing
text items. The next chapter discusses how to enter mathematics. </bodyText>
</subparagraph>
</subsection>
<subsection id="tsid_3141624">
<sectiontitle><shortTitle>Tagging</shortTitle>About Tagging</sectiontitle>

<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>text!tagging</prisec></indexitem>In
MacKichan software, all information is <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>tags!and text</prisec></indexitem>tagged.
As was stated in the New User's section of the first chapter, this tagging
is semantic, or meaningful, in nature. The tags you apply to your content
not only establish the document's structure but also consistently define
its printed, online, or typeset appearance, all according to the properties
associated with each tag. Tag properties are determined by the document's
style, a collection of commands that define the way the document appears
when you display it on the screen or in a browser, and when you produce
it without typesetting. In SWP and SW, tag properties are also determined
by the document's typesetting specifications, items generally set using
the Typeset &gt; Document Format command. </bodyText>
<bodyText>In general
there are four types of tags, set by using the four drop-down menus on the
standard toolbar: text; paragraph or list; <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>division tags</prisec></indexitem>division
or environment; and frontmatter. In a sense these are organized in descending
order of the level of organization to which they apply. <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>fonts!text tags</prisec></indexitem>Text
tags can apply to entire blocks of text or to a single character; <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>paragraph!tags</prisec></indexitem>paragraph
tags apply to an entire paragraph, structure tags apply to multiple paragraphs.
</bodyText>
<bodyText>The exact set <notewrapper xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><note type="marginpar" id="tsid_3141650"><bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginheading">Note</QTR></bodyText></note></notewrapper>
of tags you have available at any time depends upon your original choice
of document shell. This is one of the reasons why it is important to choose
an appropriate shell. </bodyText>
<bodyText>In general, you use text tags
for a word or phrase you wish to set off from the rest of text; for example,
using <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>italics!on Text tag menu</prisec></indexitem>italics
to indicate a foreign word or phrase. Use paragraph tags to indicate the
purpose of an entire paragraph: to serve as the heading for a section, to
serve as a <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>body tags</prisec></indexitem>body
paragraph, a <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>bibliography!paragraph tag</prisec></indexitem>bibliography
entry, and so on. These will also affect a paragraph's <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>alignment!paragraphs</prisec></indexitem>alignment.
<indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>section!tags</prisec></indexitem>Section
tags define the purpose of entire blocks of paragraphs: as a subsection
in the current section, as a <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>preface</prisec></indexitem>preface,
and the like. There is a <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>remove section tag</prisec></indexitem>(removesection)
tag to take off a previous section choice. Use a frontmatter tag at the
appropriate place in a document to automatically generate items such as
the <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>title page</prisec></indexitem>title
page, <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>table of contents</prisec></indexitem>table
of contents, or a list of figures. (Appearance of such items is controlled
by the shell and may be adjusted via the Document Format dialog box.) </bodyText>
<subparagraph id="tsid_3141603">
<sectiontitle>To apply a tag to a part of a document</sectiontitle> 
<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>tags!applying</prisec></indexitem></bodyText>

<numberedlist>  
<numberedListItem><bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>body tags!applying</prisec></indexitem>Click
to move the <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>insertion point!moving</prisec></indexitem>insertion
point to the relevant part OR </bodyText>Click-and-drag to select a section
of text. </numberedListItem>
<numberedListItem><bodyText>Choose the desired
tag from the menu. </bodyText>Additional information about applying specific
kinds of tags is provided later in the chapter. 

</numberedListItem>
</numberedlist>
 
</subparagraph>

</subsection>
</section></body> 
</html>