<?xml-stylesheet href='css/help.css'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
<head>

</head> 
<body msiSelectionManagerID="116">
  <section xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="tsid_3141594">
    <sectiontitle>Entering and Editing Symbols and Characters</sectiontitle>

    <bodyText>In SWP, SW, and SNB you can enter symbols and characters:

      <bulletlist>  
        <bulletListItem>
          <bodyText>With the mouse, from the symbols palettes, especially the 
            Symbol Cache. 
          </bodyText>
          <bodyText>Let the mouse hover over
            each item on the palettes to display the name of the symbol or character.
          </bodyText>
        </bulletListItem>
        <bulletListItem>
          <bodyText>With the keyboard, using shortcut macros (usually the 
            <texlogo xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" name="tex">T<sub>E</sub>X</texlogo>
            name of the symbol).
          </bodyText>
          <bodyText>The Macro list shows the name you entered most recently.
          </bodyText>
        </bulletListItem>
        <bulletListItem>
          <bodyText>With an alternate keyboard. 
          </bodyText>
          <bodyText>Greek characters are mapped to a Greek keyboard, and many common mathematical
            symbols and characters are mapped to the Symbol keyboard. 
        </bodyText>
        </bulletListItem>
      </bulletlist>
    </bodyText>
     
    <subparagraph id="tsid_3141601">
    <sectiontitle>To enter symbols and characters from the symbols palettes</sectiontitle>

      <bodyText>Click the symbol or character you want on the Symbol pane on the sidebar, 
        or click the symbol palette you want on the Symbol toolbar and then from the 
        list of available symbols, click the symbol you want.
      </bodyText>
    </subparagraph>

    <subparagraph id="tsid_3141602">
    <sectiontitle>To enter symbols and characters with shortcut macros</sectiontitle>

      <numberedlist>  
        <numberedListItem>
          <bodyText>Press Ctrl+spacebar to open the Macro box on the Status bar.
          </bodyText>
        </numberedListItem>
        <numberedListItem>
          <bodyText>Type the name of the symbol or character, or type the first letter 
            of the name and select the name from the list that opens.
          </bodyText>
          <bodyText>The Macro list self-completes, so entering macros is a fast way to 
            enter mathematics.
          </bodyText>
        </numberedListItem>
        <numberedListItem>
          <bodyText>Press Enter.
          </bodyText>
        </numberedListItem>
      </numberedlist>
    </subparagraph>

    <subparagraph id="tsid_3141603">
    <sectiontitle>To repeat the most recently entered macro</sectiontitle> 
    
      <bodyText>Press Ctrl+spacebar and then press Enter.
      </bodyText>
    </subparagraph>

    <subparagraph id="tsid_3141604">
    <sectiontitle>To enter symbols and characters from an alternate keyboard</sectiontitle>

      <numberedlist>  
        <numberedListItem>
          <bodyText>Press Ctrl+k to change to the
            Symbol keyboard or Ctrl+g to change to the Greek keyboard.
          </bodyText>
        </numberedListItem>
        <numberedListItem>
          <bodyText>Press the key for the symbol you want.
          </bodyText>
        </numberedListItem>
      </numberedlist>
    </subparagraph>

    <subparagraph id="tsid_3141605">
    <sectiontitle>To convert text to mathematics</sectiontitle> 

      <numberedlist>  
        <numberedListItem>
          <bodyText>Select the text.
          </bodyText>
        </numberedListItem>
        <numberedListItem>
          <bodyText>Toggle to mathematics.
          </bodyText>
        </numberedListItem>
      </numberedlist>
       
      <bodyText>The program converts the selection to mathematics, removing
        all ordinary spaces in the selection, italicizing alphabetic characters
        and displaying numbers in ordinary text.
      </bodyText>
    </subparagraph>

    <bodyText>[ <a href="cd05-00-workwithmath.xhtml">Return to prior section</a> ]</bodyText>

  </section>
</body> 
</html>