<?xml-stylesheet href='css/help.css'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:sw="http://www.sciword.com/namespaces/sciword">
<head>

<preamble> 
<documentclass class="book"/>  
<usepackage req="amssymb,amsmath"/>
<usepackage req="xspace"/>

<usepackage req="graphicx"/> 
<usepackage req="ragged2e"/> 
<usepackage req="xcolor"/>
<texb enc="1" name="graphicspath"><![CDATA[\graphicspath {{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_tcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_gcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_graphics/}}]]></texb>
            

<docformat> <colist sides="twoside"/> 
</docformat>  <preambleTeX><![CDATA[
\usepackage {bm}
\usepackage {tabulary}
\input {tcilatex}]]></preambleTeX> </preamble>
</head> 
<body msiSelectionManagerID="108"><chapter xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="tsid_3141592">
<sectiontitle>Working with Mathematics</sectiontitle><marker id="chap:WorkingwithMathematics"/>

<bodyText>As with all versions of <notewrapper xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><note type="marginpar" id="tsid_3141665"><bodyText>
<texb enc="1" name="raggedright"><![CDATA[\raggedright]]></texb><texb enc="1" name="set spacing"><![CDATA[\setlength {\parskip }{14pt}]]></texb>
<QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">Before You Begin</QTR></bodyText>
<bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">Entering
and Editing Symbols and Characters</QTR></bodyText>
<bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">Tagging
Mathematics</QTR></bodyText>
<bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">Entering
and Editing Mathematical Objects</QTR></bodyText>
<bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">Information
for Power Users</QTR></bodyText></note></notewrapper> 
Scientific WorkPlace 
(SWP), 
Scientific Word
 (SW), and 
Scientific Notebook
 (SNB) entering math is straightforward in Version 6.  Working right
in the program window, you use familiar notation to <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>entering mathematics</prisec></indexitem>enter
mathematical characters, symbols, and objects into your document. Simple
commands let you create displayed or inline mathematics. </bodyText>
<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>creating!mathematics</prisec></indexitem>Editing
<indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>mathematics!editing/entering</prisec></indexitem>mathematics
is equally straightforward. You can use standard clipboard and drag-and-drop
operations to cut, copy, paste, and delete selections. You can also use
the search and replace features to locate or change mathematical information.
Although the program automatically formats mathematics correctly, you may
occasionally want to modify the appearance of your mathematics. Special
editing procedures are available for certain mathematical objects. </bodyText>
<bodyText>This
chapter gives instructions for entering and editing mathematical information.
It explains how to enter mathematical symbols and characters and how to
create automatically formatted objects, such as fractions, radicals, and
operators.  <br/></bodyText></chapter></body> 
</html>