<?xml-stylesheet href='css/help.css'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:sw="http://www.sciword.com/namespaces/sciword">
<head>

<preamble> 
<documentclass class="book"/>  
<usepackage req="amssymb,amsmath"/>
<usepackage req="xspace"/>

<usepackage req="graphicx"/> 
<usepackage req="ragged2e"/> 
<usepackage req="xcolor"/>
<texb enc="1" name="graphicspath"><![CDATA[\graphicspath {{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_tcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_gcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_graphics/}}]]></texb>
            

<docformat> <colist sides="twoside"/> 
</docformat>  <preambleTeX><![CDATA[
\usepackage {bm}
\usepackage {tabulary}
\input {tcilatex}]]></preambleTeX> </preamble>
</head> 
<body msiSelectionManagerID="120"><section xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="tsid_3141595">
<sectiontitle>Tagging Mathematics</sectiontitle> 
<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>mathematics!tagging</prisec></indexitem>You
can add <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>mathematics!formatting</prisec></indexitem>emphasis
and meaning to mathematics with text tags. In mathematics, calligraphic
<indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>calligraphic</prisec></indexitem>text
denotes sets or integral transforms; blackboard bold <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>blackboard bold</prisec></indexitem>denotes
the set of real numbers or natural numbers; and boldface text often indicates
vectors and matrices. You can apply these conventions in your document by
applying text tags to your mathematical content. </bodyText>
<bodyText>The
Blackboard Bold, Calligraphic, Fraktur, <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>fraktur</prisec></indexitem>and
Bold Symbol tags automatically start mathematics. If you apply one of these
tags to a selection, the selection is changed to mathematics even if it
was originally text. If you apply one of the tags without having made a
selection, the next thing you enter will be mathematics. Calligraphic and
Blackboard Bold are valid only for uppercase letters. </bodyText>
<bodyText>The
Bold and Bold Symbol text tags have similar names but different behaviors.
The Bold tag is for text; it doesn't start mathematics. If you apply the
Bold tag to a selection in mathematics, the program bolds the selection
and changes the mathematics to an upright font. On the other hand, the Bold
Symbol tag automatically starts mathematics, bolding the information while
maintaining correct mathematical formatting. </bodyText>
<subparagraph id="tsid_3141606">
<sectiontitle>To apply a text tag to mathematics</sectiontitle> 

<numberedlist>  
<numberedListItem><bodyText>Select the mathematics you
want to tag. </bodyText></numberedListItem>
<numberedListItem><bodyText>Click
the tag you want on the Text tag list. 

</bodyText>

</numberedListItem>
</numberedlist>
 </subparagraph>
<subparagraph id="tsid_3141607">
<sectiontitle>To remove a text tag from mathematics</sectiontitle> 

<numberedlist>  
<numberedListItem><bodyText>Select the mathematics. </bodyText></numberedListItem>
<numberedListItem><bodyText>Click
the (normal) tag on the Text tag list. 

</bodyText>

</numberedListItem>
</numberedlist>
 
</subparagraph>
</section></body> 
</html>