<?xml-stylesheet href='css/help.css'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:sw="http://www.sciword.com/namespaces/sciword">
<head>

<preamble> 
<documentclass class="book"/>  
<usepackage req="amssymb,amsmath"/>
<usepackage req="xspace"/>

<usepackage req="graphicx"/> 
<usepackage req="ragged2e"/> 
<usepackage req="xcolor"/>
<texb enc="1" name="graphicspath"><![CDATA[\graphicspath {{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_tcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_gcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_graphics/}}]]></texb>
            

<docformat> <colist sides="twoside"/> 
</docformat>  <preambleTeX><![CDATA[
\usepackage {bm}
\usepackage {tabulary}
\input {tcilatex}]]></preambleTeX> </preamble>
</head> 
<body msiSelectionManagerID="112"><section xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="tsid_3141593">
<sectiontitle>Before You Begin</sectiontitle> 
<bodyText>The next sections
of this chapter recapitulate the differences between entering text and entering
mathematics. </bodyText><vspace dim="\fill " type="customSpace"/>
<subsection id="tsid_3141638">
<sectiontitle>Text <italics>vs.</italics> Mathematics</sectiontitle> 
<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>mathematics!and text</prisec></indexitem><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>Math vs. Text</prisec></indexitem>As
we stated in the previous chapter, the default state for Version 6 is text
mode; it is easy to toggle between the two modes and it is also easy to
determine what mode you are in. Unless you actively change to mathematics,
the program displays a ``T``
on the Standard toolbar and </bodyText>

<bulletlist>  
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Interprets anything you type as
text, displaying it in black in the program window. </bodyText></bulletListItem>
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Displays
alphabetic characters as upright, not italicized. </bodyText></bulletListItem>
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Inserts
a space when you press the spacebar. 

</bodyText>

</bulletListItem>
</bulletlist>
 
<bodyText>When you start the program, the insertion point is in text mode.
</bodyText>
<subparagraph id="tsid_3141599">
<sectiontitle>To toggle between text and mathematics</sectiontitle> 
<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>entering mathematics!Math/Text toggle</prisec></indexitem><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>mathematics!math/text toggle</prisec></indexitem></bodyText>
<bodyText>Click
the ``T'' on the standard
toolbar. The ``T'' changes
to ``M,'' the insertion point
changes to red and appears between brackets. </bodyText>
<bodyText>You may
also choose the <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>Math command!description</prisec></indexitem>Math
command from the Insert menu. </bodyText>
<bodyText>When you toggle to <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>math defaults!behavior</prisec></indexitem>mathematics,
the Math/Text button changes to an ``M''
and the program </bodyText>

<bulletlist>  
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Displays the insertion point between
brackets for mathematics. </bodyText></bulletListItem>
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Interprets
anything you type as mathematics, displaying it in red in the program window.
</bodyText></bulletListItem>
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Italicizes alphabetic
characters and displays numbers upright. </bodyText></bulletListItem>
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Automatically
formats mathematical expressions, inserting correct spacing around operators
such as + and relations such as =. </bodyText></bulletListItem>
<bulletListItem><bodyText>Advances
the insertion point to the next mathematical object when you press the spacebar.


</bodyText>

</bulletListItem>
</bulletlist>
 
</subparagraph>
</subsection>
<subsection id="tsid_3141639">
<sectiontitle><shortTitle>Tagging</shortTitle>About Tagging</sectiontitle>
<subparagraph id="tsid_3141600">
<sectiontitle>To create a Body Math paragraph</sectiontitle> 
<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>mathematics!creating a paragraph</prisec></indexitem><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>tags!and mathematics</prisec></indexitem><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>body tags!body math</prisec></indexitem><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>body math</prisec></indexitem></bodyText>

<numberedlist>  
<numberedListItem><bodyText>Place the insertion point where
you want the mathematics paragraph to begin. </bodyText></numberedListItem>
<numberedListItem><bodyText>Apply
the <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>entering mathematics!body math tag</prisec></indexitem>Body
Math tag. 

</bodyText>

</numberedListItem>
</numberedlist>
 
<bodyText>On the screen, most document shells use color to distinguish
between mathematics and text.
The default color for mathematics is red; the default color for text is
black. Math names for functions, operators, and variables appear in gray.
The program automatically formats your mathematics correctly when you display
or print your document. By default, you enter mathematics in the current
line of text, but you can also enter it on a separate line as a mathematical
display. </bodyText>
<bodyText>Mathematics behaves differently in the two
environments. For <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>mathematics!inline</prisec></indexitem>inline
mathematics, any operators are sized to fit within the line and <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>limits</prisec></indexitem>limits
are positioned to the right of operators and functions. The numerators and
denominators of <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>fractions!generalized</prisec></indexitem>fractions
are set in small type. </bodyText>
<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>mathematics!displayed</prisec></indexitem>Displayed
mathematics appears centered on a separate line and set off from the information
above and below by additional space. Operators within the display are larger
than inline operators, limits
are positioned above and below operators and functions, and the numerators
and denominators of fractions are set in full-size type. </bodyText>
</subparagraph>

</subsection>
</section></body> 
</html>