<?xml-stylesheet href='css/help.css'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:sw="http://www.sciword.com/namespaces/sciword">
<head>

<preamble> 
<documentclass class="book"/>  
<usepackage req="amssymb,amsmath"/>
<usepackage req="xspace"/>

<usepackage req="graphicx"/> 
<usepackage req="ragged2e"/> 
<usepackage req="xcolor"/>
<texb enc="1" name="graphicspath"><![CDATA[\graphicspath {{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_tcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_gcache/}{CreatingDocs60forHelpSmall_graphics/}}]]></texb>
            

<docformat> <colist sides="twoside"/> 
</docformat>  <preambleTeX><![CDATA[
\usepackage {bm}
\usepackage {tabulary}
\input {tcilatex}]]></preambleTeX> </preamble>
</head> 
<body msiSelectionManagerID="137"><section xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="tsid_3141595">
<sectiontitle>Understanding Differences in Document Production</sectiontitle>

<bodyText>Whether or not you typeset, you can create appealing documents
with SWP, SW, and SNB. Understanding the differences in the document production
methods will help you decide when to use each one. </bodyText>
<subsection id="tsid_3141619">
<sectiontitle><shortTitle>Typesetting</shortTitle>About Typesetting</sectiontitle>

<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>typesetting</prisec></indexitem>When
you typeset your document, SWP or SW previews or prints your document after
compiling it. (Typesetting isn't available in SNB.) The compilation process
invokes <texlogo xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" name="tex">T<sub>E</sub>X</texlogo>
to provide automatic hyphenation, <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>kerning</prisec></indexitem>kerning,
<indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>ligatures</prisec></indexitem>ligatures,
sophisticated <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>breaks!paragraphs</prisec></indexitem><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>breaks!line</prisec></indexitem>paragraph
and line breaking, sophisticated mathematics layout, and other fine formatting
features. It also provides automatic generation or placement of document
elements including <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>table of contents</prisec></indexitem>tables
of contents, <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>lists!of figures</prisec></indexitem><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>lists!of tables</prisec></indexitem>lists
of figures and tables, <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>cross-references</prisec></indexitem>cross-references,
footnotes and margin notes, automatically numbered sections and equations,
indexes, and bibliographies. </bodyText>
<bodyText>In Version 6, <texlogo xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" name="tex">T<sub>E</sub>X</texlogo>
typesetting yields a <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>PDF files</prisec></indexitem>Portable
Document Format, or <smallCaps>pdf</smallCaps> file that contains your typeset
document embedded with all necessary fonts and with graphics that have been
converted. Note that the previewed or printed appearance of your document
depends on specifications initially set by the document shell. These specifications
have no effect on your document when you don't typeset it. </bodyText>
<bodyText>You
can override options specified by the shell and set others using the Document
Format dialog box accessed via the Typeset menu. Information on doing so
is given later in this chapter. </bodyText></subsection>
<subsection id="tsid_3141620">
<sectiontitle><shortTitle>Direct production</shortTitle>About Direct Production</sectiontitle>

<bodyText><indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>direct printing</prisec></indexitem>When
you use <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>Preview command!direct print</prisec></indexitem>direct
preview or direct print instead of typesetting, the appearance of your document
depends on specifications in the .css file, which are initially set by the
document shell you choose. These specifications have no effect on your document
when you typeset it, although they do control how the document appears on
the Web. You can modify the specifications as needed using the CSS Editor
accessed via the Tag menu. </bodyText>
<bodyText>When you produce your document
without typesetting it, the program sends the document to a previewer or
to the printer using many of the same routines with which it displays the
document in the program window. That means that what you see in the preview
window or on paper is similar to what you see as you work on your document.
</bodyText>
<bodyText>Because the program <notewrapper xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><note type="marginpar" id="tsid_3141649"><bodyText><QTR type="QQQMarginheading">Note</QTR></bodyText></note></notewrapper>window
doesn't reflect the page setup specifications or the print options, you
don't see page breaks, margins, headers, footers, or <indexitem req="varioref"><prisec>page!numbers</prisec></indexitem>page
numbers on the screen unless you use Print Preview. </bodyText></subsection>
<subsection id="tsid_3141621">
<sectiontitle><shortTitle>Differences in the final product</shortTitle>Differences
in the Final Product</sectiontitle> 
<bodyText>We emphasize that producing
your document with and without typesetting yields noticeably different results.
While direct production yields a document similar in appearance to what
you see in the program window, typesetting your document usually yields
an appearance much different. </bodyText>
<bodyText>If you have SWP or SW,
we suggest you follow these general guidelines to choose how to produce
your document: 

<bulletlist>  
<bulletListItem><bodyText>When a finely typeset document
appearance is a high priority, typeset preview or typeset print the document
with <texb enc="1" name="pdfLaTeX"><![CDATA[\pdfLaTeX{}]]></texb> or <texb enc="1" name="XeTeX"><![CDATA[\XeTeX{}]]></texb>.
</bodyText></bulletListItem>
<bulletListItem><bodyText>When a finely typeset
appearance and automatically generated document elements aren't a priority,
when you need output quickly,
or when you're producing for Web viewing, use direct print. 

</bodyText>

</bulletListItem>
</bulletlist>
 </bodyText>
</subsection>
</section></body> 
</html>