<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet 
    href="css/help.css" type="text/css"
    ?>
<!DOCTYPE html:html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html:html xmlns:html="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:exsl="http://exslt.org/common">
<html:head>
<meta name="COMMENTS" content="% This document created by Scientific Notebook (R) Version 3.5" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="CREATED" content="Mon Aug 19 14:52:24 1996" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="REVISED" content="Tuesday, April 03, 2012 14:17:01" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Scientific Word" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<html:title>dm00-00-doing_mathematics.xht</html:title>
</html:head>
<html:body>
<h1 class="section" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<a id="top">
</a>Doing Mathematics</h1>
<h2 class="subsection" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Welcome to Version 6!</h2>
<html:bodyText>
<html:italics>Scientific WorkPlace</html:italics> and <html:italics>Scientific
   Notebook</html:italics> provide easy, direct access to mathematics with a free-form
   interface to a computer algebra system that is integrated with a scientific
   word processor.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   By providing an interface with little or no learning cost,
   <html:italics>Scientific WorkPlace</html:italics> and <html:italics>Scientific
   Notebook</html:italics> make symbolic computation as accessible as any word processor.
   For the user familiar with MuPAD, they also allow access to the full range of
   MuPAD functions and to functions programmed in MuPAD.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   These programs are designed to fit the needs of a wide range of users, from
   the beginning student looking to understand and enjoy mathematics to the
   professional scientist who wants to produce typeset-quality documents with
   embedded advanced mathematical calculations and plots.
</html:bodyText>
<h2 class="subsection" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Use Natural Mathematics Notation</h2>
<html:bodyText>
   The essential components of this interface are <html:italics>free-form
   editing</html:italics> and <html:italics>natural mathematical notation</html:italics>.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   The text editors in <html:italics>Scientific WorkPlace</html:italics> and
   <html:italics>Scientific Notebook</html:italics> accept mathematical formulas and
   equations entered in natural notation. The symbolic computation system
   produces mathematical output inside the document that is formatted in natural
   notation, can be edited, and can be used directly as input to subsequent
   mathematical calculations.
</html:bodyText>
<h2 class="subsection" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">The Computational Engine</h2>
<html:bodyText>
   The computational engine provided with <html:italics>Scientific
   WorkPlace</html:italics> and <html:italics>Scientific Notebook</html:italics> version 6 is
   MuPAD 5. See "<html:a href="dm16-00-mupad.xhtml"> MuPAD Functions and
   Expressions</html:a>" for a list of built-in functions and constants, descriptions
   of Compute menu commands in terms of the native commands of MuPAD, and
   descriptions of built-in functions in terms of the MuPAD syntax.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   [ <html:a href="#top"> Return to top of page</html:a> ]
</html:bodyText>
<h2 class="subsection" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Menus in Version 6</h2>
<html:bodyText>
   Although there are substantial changes to <html:italics>Scientific
   WorkPlace</html:italics> and <html:italics>Scientific Notebook</html:italics> for Version
   6, the computational behavior of the program is largely unchanged. The Compute
   menu will look very familiar to experienced users. One new item on the Compute
   menu, Passthru Code to Engine, provides a way for users familiar with MuPAD
   syntax to pass MuPAD code directly to the MuPAD engine.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   There are some logical changes in the structure of other menus. Mathematics
   objects on earlier Insert menus have been gathered together under the heading
   Math Objects, a new item on the Insert menu.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   Symbol panels are available in a sidebar as well as on a Symbol toolbar.
</html:bodyText>
<h2 class="subsection" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">New in Version 6</h2>
<html:bulletlist>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:a href="dm16-00-mupad.xhtml"> MuPAD 5 computer algebra system</html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:a href="dm02-01-numbers_functions_units.xhtml#mixed numbers and long division"> Rewrite
         fraction as mixed number and arithmetic with mixed numbers</html:a>
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:a href="dm15-02-custom.xhtml#entities"> Choice of letters and fonts for
         imaginary unit and exponential e </html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:a href="dm02-05-numbers_functions_units.xhtml#complex conjugate"> Overbar for
         complex conjugate</html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:a href="dm15-02-custom.xhtml#output"> More control over thresholds for
         scientific notation</html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:a href="dm05-01-functions.xhtml#valid names"> Decorated characters as
         expression names</html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:a href="dm05-06-functions.xhtml#passthru code to engine"> Passthru Code to
         Engine</html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:a href="dm06-06-plotting.xhtml"> Reorient 3D Plots with click and drag</html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:a href="dm06-02-plotting.xhtml#top"> Interactive plot tools in document
         window</html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:a href="dm06-01-plotting.xhtml"> Smoother 2D Plots</html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:a href="dm15-02-custom.xhtml#derivatives"> Dot notation for derivatives</html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:a href="dm07-07-calculus.xhtml#taylor series"> Specify center of a power
         series</html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:a href="dm07-03-calculus.xhtml#implicit differentiation"> Specify both
         dependent and independent variables for implicit differentiation </html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:a href="dm07-02-calculus.xhtml#creating a table of values by concatenating matrices"> Map
         a function to a matrix</html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
</html:bulletlist>
<html:bodyText>
   [ <html:a href="#top"> Return to top of page</html:a> ]
</html:bodyText>
</html:body>
</html:html>
