<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet 
    href="css/help.css" type="text/css"
    ?>
<!DOCTYPE html:html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html:html xmlns:html="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:exsl="http://exslt.org/common">
<html:head>
<meta name="COMMENTS" content="% This document created by Scientific Notebook (R) Version 3.5" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="CREATED" content="Mon Aug 19 14:52:24 1996" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="REVISED" content="Thursday, December 08, 2011 19:29:15" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Scientific Word" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<html:title>dm01-01-basic_techniques.xhtml</html:title>
</html:head>
<html:body>
<h2 class="subsection" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<a id="top">
</a>Conventions</h2>
<html:bodyText>
   Program tools are available from menus, toolbar buttons, and keyboard
   shortcuts. Many tools may be invoked in multiple ways to suit your style of
   work---via menus, toolbar buttons, or the keyboard. In this manual, we
   generally indicate only one of the possible ways of accessing a tool, usually
   via the menus. For command shortcuts for doing or entering mathematics, see
   one of
   <span class="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<a href="dm13-02-doing_mathematics.xhtml">
<span class="QQQMarginNoteNewChapter">Toolbar
   and Keyboard Shortcuts for Compute Menu Commands</span>
</a>,
   </span>
<a href="dm14-01-entering_mathematics.xhtml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> Entering Mathematics and
   Text</a>, <a href="dm14-02-entering_mathematics.xhtml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> Entering Mathematical
   Objects</a>, <a href="dm14-03-entering_mathematics.xhtml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> Entering Symbols and
   Characters</a>, or <a href="dm14-04-entering_mathematics.xhtml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> Entering Units
   of Measure</a>.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<em xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<hr class="hrulefill">
</hr>
</em>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   In this section:
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<a href="#general notation" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="width:2em">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>General
   Notation</a>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<a href="#keyboard conventions" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="width:2em">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>Keyboard
   Conventions</a>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<a href="#computations" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="width:2em">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>Computations</a>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<em xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<hr class="hrulefill">
</hr>
</em>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<a id="conventions" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>Understanding the notation and the terms used in our
   documentation will help you understand the instructions. We assume you're
   familiar with the basic procedures and terminology for your operating system.
   In our manuals, we use the notation and terms listed below.
</html:bodyText>
<html:section><html:sectiontitle>
<a id="general notation" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>General Notation</html:sectiontitle></html:section>
<html:bulletlist>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Text like <strong xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">this</strong> indicates text you should type exactly as it
         is shown.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Text like <html:italics>this</html:italics> indicates information that you must
         supply, such as a filename.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Text like
         <mml:math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<mml:mrow>
<mml:mi>t</mml:mi>
<mml:mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mml:mo>
<mml:mi>h</mml:mi>
<mml:mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mml:mo>
<mml:mi>i</mml:mi>
<mml:mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mml:mo>
<mml:mi>s</mml:mi>
</mml:mrow>
</mml:math>
         indicates an expression that is typed in mathematics mode.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         The word <html:italics>choose </html:italics>means to designate a command for the
         program to carry out. As with all standard applications, you can choose a
         command with the mouse or with the keyboard. Commands may be listed on a menu
         or shown on a button or in a dialog box. For example, the instruction "Choose
         File &gt; Open means you should first choose the File menu and then from that
         menu, choose the Open command. The instruction choose OK means to click OK
         with the mouse, or to press Tab to select the OK button and then press Enter.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         The word <html:italics>check </html:italics>means to turn on an option in a dialog
         box.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
</html:bulletlist>
<html:section><html:sectiontitle>
<a id="keyboard conventions" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>Keyboard Conventions</html:sectiontitle></html:section>
<html:bodyText>
   We also use standard computer conventions to give keyboard instructions.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bulletlist>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         The names of keys in the instructions match the names shown on most keyboards.
         Ctrl (Windows) and Cmd (Mac) are synonymous, as are Enter (Windows) and Return
         (Mac), and right click (Windows) and Cmd+click (Mac). Names of keys are always
         shown in Windows format. Mac users should substitute Mac keys (e.g. Cmd and
         Return) as appropriate.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         A plus sign (+) between the names of two keys indicates that you must press
         the first key and hold it down while you press the second key. For example,
         Ctrl+g means that you press and hold down the Ctrl key, press g, and then
         release both keys. Similarly, the notation Ctrl+word means that you must hold
         down the Ctrl key, type the word that appears after the +, then release the
         Ctrl key. Note that if a letter appears capitalized, you should type that
         letter as a capital.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
</html:bulletlist>
<html:section><html:sectiontitle>
<a id="computations" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>Computations</html:sectiontitle></html:section>
<html:bodyText>
   When you do a computaton, the result appears in your document. The mathematics
   shown in gray areas depicts both what you enter and the result after choosing
   a computing command.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   [ <a href="#top" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> Return to beginning of section</a> ]
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<hr class="hrulefill" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</hr>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<html:object height="18px" data="graphics/dm01-01-basic_techniques__1.png" units="px" msi_resize="true" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:body>
</html:html>
