<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet 
    href="css/help.css" type="text/css"
    ?>
<!DOCTYPE html:html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html:html xmlns:html="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:exsl="http://exslt.org/common">
<html:head>
<meta name="COMMENTS" content="% This document created by Scientific Notebook (R) Version 3.5" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="CREATED" content="Mon Aug 19 14:52:24 1996" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="REVISED" content="Thursday, December 08, 2011 19:29:31" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Scientific Word" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<html:title>dm01-02-basic_techniques.xhtml</html:title>
</html:head>
<html:body>
<h2 class="subsection" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<a id="top">
</a>Inserting Text and Mathematics</h2>
<html:bodyText>
<html:italics>Scientific WorkPlace</html:italics> and <html:italics>Scientific
   Notebook</html:italics> are modal in the sense that at all times during information
   entry you are either entering text or mathematics, and the results obtained
   from keystrokes and other user interface actions will differ depending on
   whether you are entering text or mathematics.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<em xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<hr class="hrulefill">
</hr>
</em>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   In this section:
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<a href="#toggling between modes" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>Toggling
   Between Modes</a>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<a href="#typing mathematics" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="width:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</span>
</span>Typing
   Mathematics</a>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<a href="#constants" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="width:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</span>
</span>Constants</a>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<a href="#displaying mathematics" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</span>
</span>Displaying
   Mathematics</a>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<a href="#centering" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</span>
</span>Centering
   Plots, Graphics and Text</a>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<em xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<hr class="hrulefill">
</hr>
</em>
</html:bodyText>
<html:section><html:sectiontitle>
<a id="toggling between modes" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>Toggling
Between Modes</html:sectiontitle></html:section>
<html:bodyText>
   We refer to being in either text mode or mathematics mode. The default state
   is text mode; it is easy to toggle between the two modes and it is also easy
   to determine what mode you are in. Unless you actively change to mathematics,
   the program displays a "T" on the Standard toolbar and
</html:bodyText>
<html:bulletlist>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Interprets anything you type as text, displaying it in black in the program
         window.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Displays alphabetic characters as upright, not italicized.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Inserts a space when you press the spacebar.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
</html:bulletlist>
<html:bodyText>
   When you start the program, the insert point is in text mode.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<strong xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">To switch from text to mathematics</strong>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bulletlist>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Click the "T" on the standard toolbar, or
      </html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
         Choose Insert &gt; Math.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
</html:bulletlist>
<html:bodyText>
   When in mathematics mode, the program
</html:bodyText>
<html:bulletlist>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Displays the insert point between brackets for mathematics.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Interprets anything you type as mathematics, displaying it in red in the
         program window.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Italicizes alphabetic characters and displays numbers upright.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Automatically formats mathematical expressions, inserting correct spacing
         around operators such as
         <mml:math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<mml:mrow>
<mml:mo>+</mml:mo>
</mml:mrow>
</mml:math>
         and relations such as
         <mml:math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<mml:mrow>
<mml:mo form="infix">=</mml:mo>
</mml:mrow>
</mml:math>.
         Mathematics is automatically spaced differently from text as you enter
         it---for example,
         "<mml:math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<mml:mrow>
<mml:mn>2</mml:mn>
<mml:mo form="infix">+</mml:mo>
<mml:mn>2</mml:mn>
</mml:mrow>
</mml:math>" rather
         than "2+2"---so you do not have to make adjustments.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Advances the insert point to the next mathematical object when you press the
         spacebar.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
</html:bulletlist>
<html:bodyText>
   On the screen, mathematics appears in red and text in black.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<strong xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">To switch from mathematics to text</strong>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bulletlist>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Click the "M" on the standard toolbar, or
      </html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
         Choose Insert &gt; Text.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
</html:bulletlist>
<html:bodyText>
   When you switch from mathematics to text, the "M" changes to "T" and the
   insert point changes to black.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   The blinking vertical line on your screen is referred to as the
   <html:italics>insert point</html:italics>. You may have heard it called the
   <html:italics>insert cursor</html:italics>, or simply the
   <html:italics>cursor</html:italics>. The insert point marks the position where
   characters or symbols are entered when you type or click a symbol. You can
   change the position of the insert point with the arrow keys or by clicking a
   different screen position with the mouse. The position of the mouse is
   indicated by the <html:italics>mouse pointer</html:italics>, which assumes the
   shape of an I-beam over text and an arrow over mathematics.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   [ <a href="#top" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> Return to beginning of section</a> ]
</html:bodyText>
<html:section><html:sectiontitle>
<a id="typing mathematics" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>Typing mathematics</html:sectiontitle></html:section>
<html:bodyText>
   You can type information in a document in either text or mathematics. The
   mathematics that you type is recognized by the underlying computing engine as
   mathematics, and the text is ignored by the computing engine. The state of the
   Toggle Text/Math button reflects the state at the position of the insert
   point.<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bulletlist>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:italics>Text</html:italics> is entered at the position of the insertion point
         when the <span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Toggle Text/Math</span> button in the <span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Standard</span>
         toolbar shows T.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
<html:italics>Mathematics</html:italics> is entered at the position of the insert
         point when the <span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Toggle Text/-Math</span> button on the
         <span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Standard</span> toolbar shows a red M.<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
</html:bulletlist>
<html:bodyText>
   You can toggle between mathematics and text by clicking the Toggle Text/Math
   button or by pressing Ctrl+m or Ctrl+t on the keyboard. Entering a mathematics
   symbol by clicking a button on a toolbar automatically puts the state in
   mathematics at the position in which the symbol is entered. The state remains
   in mathematics as you type characters or symbols to the right of existing
   mathematics, until you either toggle back into text or move the insert point
   into text by using the mouse or by pressing right arrow, left arrow, or the
   spacebar.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   Choose View &gt; Toolbars if any toolbar you would like to use does not
   automatically appear above your Document Window.<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<strong xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">To type a fraction, radical, exponent, or subscript</strong>
</html:bodyText>
<html:numberedlist>
<html:numberedListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Choose <span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Insert</span> &gt; Math Objects &gt;
         <a id="fraction" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>
<span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Fraction</span>,
         <a id="radical" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>
<span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Radical</span>,
         <a id="superscript" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>
<span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Superscript</span>, or
         <a id="subscript" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>
<span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Subscript</span> for input
         boxes:<mml:math mode="display" display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<mml:mrow>
<mml:mfrac>
<mml:mi>&square;</mml:mi>
<mml:mi>&square;</mml:mi>
</mml:mfrac>
<mml:mtext>&emsp;</mml:mtext>
<mml:msqrt>
<mml:mi>&square;</mml:mi>
</mml:msqrt>
<mml:mtext>&emsp;</mml:mtext>
<mml:msup>
<mml:mi>x</mml:mi>
<mml:mi>&square;</mml:mi>
</mml:msup>
<mml:mtext>&emsp;</mml:mtext>
<mml:msub>
<mml:mi>y</mml:mi>
<mml:mi>&square;</mml:mi>
</mml:msub>
</mml:mrow>
</mml:math>
</html:bodyText>
</html:numberedListItem>
<html:numberedListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Enter expressions in the input
         boxes:<mml:math mode="display" display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<mml:mrow>
<mml:mfrac>
<mml:mn>2</mml:mn>
<mml:mn>3</mml:mn>
</mml:mfrac>
<mml:mtext>&emsp;</mml:mtext>
<mml:msqrt>
<mml:mn>5</mml:mn>
</mml:msqrt>
<mml:mtext>&emsp;</mml:mtext>
<mml:msup>
<mml:mi>x</mml:mi>
<mml:mn>2</mml:mn>
</mml:msup>
<mml:mtext>&emsp;</mml:mtext>
<mml:msub>
<mml:mi>y</mml:mi>
<mml:mn>1</mml:mn>
</mml:msub>
</mml:mrow>
</mml:math>
</html:bodyText>
</html:numberedListItem>
</html:numberedlist>
<html:bodyText>
   The spacebar and arrow keys move the insertion point through mathematical
   expressions and the tab key toggles between input boxes.<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<strong xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">To use symbols for addition, multiplication and division</strong>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bulletlist>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Use standard symbols on the keyboard.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Choose View &gt; Toolbars and check Symbol Toolbar. Click one of the buttons
         on the Symbol Toolbar and a row of symbols will appear. (See
         <a href="dm01-05-basic_techniques.xhtml#symbol toolbar" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> Math and Symbol
         Toolbars</a>.)
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Click the left or right sidebar pointer and choose Add &gt; Symbol. Click one
         of the buttons and a panel of symbols will appear.<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br> (See
         <a href="dm01-05-basic_techniques.xhtml#symbols sidebar" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> Math and Symbol
         Toolbars</a>.)
      </html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
</html:bulletlist>
<html:bodyText>
   You select a piece of text with the mouse by holding down the left mouse
   button while moving the mouse, or from the keyboard by holding down shift and
   pressing right arrow or left arrow. Your selection appears on the screen in
   reversed colors. This technique is sometimes referred to as highlighting an
   area of the screen. This is also one of the ways you can select mathematics.
   See <a href="dm01-04-basic_techniques.xhtml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> Selecting Mathematical
   Expressions</a> for a discussion of automatic and user selections for
   mathematics.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<a id="expanding brackets" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>There are many brackets available for
   mathematics expressions. Brackets entered from buttons or dialogs, or from the
   keyboard with Ctrl/Cmd pressed, are expanding brackets (sometimes called
   fences)---both sides are entered and the resulting brackets change size (both
   height and width) depending on the contents. Expanding brackets will not break
   at the end of a line so lengthy expressions enclosed in expanding brackets may
   need to be displayed. Left and right brackets entered from the keyboard
   (without Ctrl/Cmd pressed) act independently. They also have fixed
   height.<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<strong xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">To insert expanding brackets in a mathematics expression</strong>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bulletlist>
<html:bulletListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Choose Insert &gt; Math Objects &gt; Brackets and select the desired brackets
         from the panel that appears.<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
</html:bodyText>
</html:bulletListItem>
</html:bulletlist>
<html:bodyText>
   Expanding parentheses and square brackets are also available on the Math
   toolbar.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   [ <a href="#top" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> Return to beginning of section</a> ]
</html:bodyText>
<html:section><html:sectiontitle>Constants</html:sectiontitle></html:section>
<html:bodyText>
<a id="constants" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>Certain constants are recognized<a id="recognizing&#xA;   constants" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a> in their usual forms---such<a id="pi" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a> as
   <mml:math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<mml:mrow>
<mml:mi>&pi;</mml:mi>
</mml:mrow>
</mml:math>,
   <a id="i" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>
<mml:math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<mml:mrow>
<mml:mi>i</mml:mi>
</mml:mrow>
</mml:math>,
   and
   <a id="e" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>
<mml:math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<mml:mrow>
<mml:mi>e</mml:mi>
</mml:mrow>
</mml:math>---as
   long as the context is appropriate. On the other hand, they are recognized as
   <a id="arbitrary constant" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>arbitrary constants, variables, or <a id="index&#xA;   symbol" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>indices when appropriate to the context, helping to provide a
   completely natural way for you to type and perform mathematical computations.
</html:bodyText>
<html:section><html:sectiontitle>
<a id="displaying mathematics" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>Displaying Mathematics</html:sectiontitle></html:section>
<html:bodyText>
   Mathematics can be centered on a separate line in a display.
   <mml:math mode="display" display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<mml:mrow>
<mml:mi>y</mml:mi>
<mml:mo form="infix">=</mml:mo>
<mml:mrow>
<mml:mrow>
<mml:mi>a</mml:mi>
<mml:mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mml:mo>
<mml:mi>x</mml:mi>
</mml:mrow>
<mml:mo form="infix">+</mml:mo>
<mml:mi>b</mml:mi>
</mml:mrow>
</mml:mrow>
</mml:math>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<strong xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">To create a display</strong>
</html:bodyText>
<html:numberedlist>
<html:numberedListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Choose Insert &gt; Math Objects &gt; Display.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:numberedListItem>
<html:numberedListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Type or paste a mathematical expression in the display.<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
</html:bodyText>
</html:numberedListItem>
</html:numberedlist>
<html:bodyText>
   Pressing enter immediately before a display will add extra vertical space. If
   you do not want this space, place the insert point immediately before the
   display and press backspace. (This removes the "new paragraph" symbol.)
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   Pressing enter immediately after a display will add extra vertical space and
   cause the next line to start a new paragraph. If you do not want this space or
   indention, place the insert point at the start of the next line and press
   backspace. (This removes the "new paragraph" symbol.)
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   You can begin with an existing mathematical expression and put it into a
   display.<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<strong xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">To put mathematics in a display</strong>
</html:bodyText>
<html:numberedlist>
<html:numberedListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Select the mathematics with click and drag or Shift+right arrow.
      </html:bodyText>
</html:numberedListItem>
<html:numberedListItem>
<html:bodyText>
         Choose Insert &gt; Math Objects &gt; Display.<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</br>
</html:bodyText>
</html:numberedListItem>
</html:numberedlist>
<html:bodyText>
   The default environment in a display is mathematics. You can, however, enter
   text in a display by toggling to text.
</html:bodyText>
<html:section><html:sectiontitle>
<a id="centering" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</a>Centering Plots, Graphics
and Text</html:sectiontitle></html:section>
<html:bodyText>
   If you have text that you wish to center on a separate line, the natural way
   to do this operation is with Centered, which you can choose from the
   Section/Body Tag pop-up menu.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   If you have a plot or graphic that you wish to center on a separate line, you
   should choose the <a href="dm06-03-plotting.xhtml#displayed frames" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> Displayed
   setting in the Layout dialog</a>. To center a group of plots or graphics,
   choose the In Line setting in the Layout dialog and then use Centered.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   [ <a href="#top" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> Return to beginning of section</a> ]
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<hr class="hrulefill" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</hr>
<a href="#top" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> top
   <mml:math display="inline">
<mml:mrow>
<mml:mo form="infix">&uArr;</mml:mo>
</mml:mrow>
</mml:math>
</a>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<html:object height="18px" data="graphics/dm01-02-basic_techniques__1.png" units="px" msi_resize="true" />
</html:bodyText>
</html:body>
</html:html>
