<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet 
 href="css/help.css" type="text/css"
 ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html hideHelperLines="true" xmlns:html="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:exsl="http://exslt.org/common">
<head>
<meta name="COMMENTS" content="% This document created by Scientific Notebook (R) Version 3.5" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="CREATED" content="Mon Aug 19 14:52:24 1996" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="REVISED" content="Thursday, March 15, 2012 00:35:26" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Scientific Word" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<script type="text/javascript"
   src="resource://res/html/vcam.js"></script>
<title>Plotting Curves and Surfaces</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1 class="section" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<a id="top">
</a>Plotting Curves and Surfaces</h1>
<bodyText>
   The plotting capabilities of symbolic algebra systems are among their most
   powerful features. With the system you are using, you can carry out operations
   interactively. You can plot functions and expressions, examine the results,
   revise the plot and examine the results of the revision, add multiple
   functions to the plot, and carry out a variety of other plotting procedures.
   This adds an experimental dimension to problem solving that was not easily
   accessible in the past. In the preceding chapter, several plots were provided
   to illustrate properties of functions. You will find yourself creating plots
   in many situations to help answer questions about the behavior of different
   functions or families of functions.
</bodyText>
<bodyText>
<em xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<hr class="hrulefill">
</hr>
</em>
</bodyText>
<bodyText>
   In this chapter:
</bodyText>
<bodyText>
<span style="width:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>
<a href="dm06-01-plotting.xhtml#top"> Getting
   Started with 2D
   Plots</a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
<span style="width:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>
<a href="dm06-02-plotting.xhtml#top"> Interactive
   Tools for 2D
   Plots</a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
<span style="width:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>
<a href="dm06-03-plotting.xhtml#top"> Graph
   User
   Settings</a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
<span style="width:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>
<a href="dm06-04-plotting.xhtml#top"> 2D
   Plots of Functions and
   Expressions</a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
<span style="width:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>
<a href="dm06-05-plotting.xhtml"> Creating
   Animated 2D
   Plots</a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
<span style="width:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>
<a href="dm06-06-plotting.xhtml"> Creating
   3D
   Plots</a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
<span style="width:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>
<a href="dm06-07-plotting.xhtml"> Creating
   Animated 3D Plots</a>
</bodyText>
<bodyText>
<em xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<hr class="hrulefill">
</hr>
</em>
</bodyText>
<bodyText>
   In Plotting Curves and Surfaces, you will find techniques for creating plots,
   showing how to plot lines and curves in the Euclidean plane, and lines,
   curves, and surfaces in three-dimensional Euclidean space. These techniques
   use the basic routines Rectangular, Polar, Implicit, and Parametric from the
   Plot 2D submenu, and Rectangular, Cylindrical, Spherical, Implicit, and Tube
   from the Plot 3D submenu.
</bodyText>
<bodyText>
   The submenus of Plot 2D, Plot 3D, and Calculus also contain a variety of
   specialized plotting routines for advanced topics in calculus, vector
   calculus, and differential equations. Those plotting options are introduced
   and discussed elsewhere, along with the related mathematics.
</bodyText>
<bodyText>
   [ <a href="#top"> Return to beginning of section</a> ]
</bodyText>
</body>
</html>
