<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet 
    href="css/help.css" type="text/css"
    ?>
<!DOCTYPE html:html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html:html xmlns:html="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:exsl="http://exslt.org/common">
<html:head>
<meta name="COMMENTS" content="% This document created by Scientific Notebook (R) Version 3.5" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="CREATED" content="Mon Aug 19 14:52:24 1996" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="REVISED" content="Saturday, January 28, 2012 04:17:25" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Scientific Word" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</meta>
<html:title>Menus and Shortcuts for Entering Mathematics</html:title>
</html:head>
<html:body>
<h1 class="section" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<a id="top">
</a>Menus and Shortcuts for Entering Mathematics</h1>
<html:bodyText>
   Keyboard shortcuts are available for many common tasks. The keyboard shortcuts
   for performing basic mathematical operations and entering symbols, characters,
   and the most common mathematical objects are faster to use than the mouse. The
   following lists summarize shortcuts related specifically to entering
   mathematics. For many additional shortcuts, consult <html:italics>Creating
   Documents with Scientific WorkPlace and Scientific Word, Version 6</html:italics> or
   choose Help and search for <html:italics>keyboard shortcuts</html:italics>.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<hr class="hrulefill" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</hr>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   In this appendix:
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<span style="width:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>
<html:a href="dm14-01-entering_mathematics.xhtml"> Entering
   Mathematics and
   Text</html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
<span style="width:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>
<html:a href="dm14-02-entering_mathematics.xhtml"> Entering
   Mathematical
   Objects</html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
<span style="width:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>
<html:a href="dm14-03-entering_mathematics.xhtml"> Entering
   Symbols and
   Characters</html:a>
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
<span style="width:2em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<span style="padding-left:2em">
</span>
</span>
<html:a href="dm14-04-entering_mathematics.xhtml"> Entering
   Units of Measure</html:a>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
<hr class="hrulefill" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
</hr>
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   We use standard computer conventions to give keyboard instructions. The names
   of keys in the instructions match the names shown on most keyboards. Ctrl
   (Windows) and Cmd (Mac) are synonymous, as are Enter (Windows) and Return
   (Mac). Names of keys are always shown in Windows format. Mac users should
   substitute Mac keys (e.g., Cmd and Return) as appropriate.<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   A plus sign (+) between the names of two keys indicates that you must press
   the first key and hold it down while you press the second key. For example,
   Ctrl+g means that you press and hold down the Ctrl key, press g, and then
   release both keys.<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   Entering mathematics is straightforward. Working right in the program window,
   you use familiar notation to enter mathematical characters, symbols, and
   objects into your document. Simple commands let you create displayed or inline
   mathematics.<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
<br xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   Editing mathematics is equally straightforward. You can use standard clipboard
   and drag-and-drop operations to cut, copy, paste, and delete selections. You
   can also use the search and replace features to locate or change mathematical
   information.
</html:bodyText>
<html:bodyText>
   [ <html:a href="#top"> Return to beginning of section</html:a> ]
</html:bodyText>
</html:body>
</html:html>
